@node First steps, Install and configure, Top, Top
@c node-name,     next,        previous,         up

@chapter First steps

@section About Frugalware

@quotation
"Seeing this feast of wonderful code spread in front of me as a working
 system was a much more powerful experience than merely knowing, intellectually,
 that all the bits were probably out there. It was as though for years I'd been
 sorting through piles of disconnected car parts - only to be suddenly
 confronted with those same parts assembled into a gleaming red Ferrari,
 door open, keys swinging from the lock and engine gently purring with
 a promise of power..."

(Eric S. Raymond)
@end quotation

The aim of creating Frugalware was to help you doing your work faster 
and simpler. We hope you will like it. In this introduction, 
we would like to answer two questions which were asked in an interview with 
VMiklos, the founder of the project at the Hungarian Unix Portal website.
If you understand Hungarian, you can read the full interview at 
@samp{ http://www.hup.hu/modules.php?name=News&file=article&sid=7264 }

@emph{ Why have I decided to start the Frugalware project? What has inspired
 you developing Frugalware? Displeasure with the current distributions
 or  world domination plans?}

@quotation
Probably the previous :-) From the Slackware-Redhat-Debian trio, I was the
 most pleased with Slackware, but it has some serious imperfections as well:
 for example the slow package manager, the absence of support for languages
 other than English and the lack of automatic package update (AFAIK,
 this problem has been already resolved with slapt-get).
@end quotation

@emph{Why Frugalware isn't just another distro? In what aspects does
 Frugalware differ from other distributions? Why should someone choose it?}

@quotation
We are trying to drop nothing from Slackware's advantages (simplicity, speed,
 etc). But we have solved the three - probably most important - problems
 mentioned above. Besides, lots of small fixes and improvements have been
 made, like the support and optional use of ivman, or the installation of
 some nice fonts by default.
@end quotation

@section Quick reference

@itemize
@item Package management: pacman (cli)
@item No PAM (a'la Slackware)
@item i686 or later CPU needed on x86
@item Supported architectures: i686, x86_64, PPC port is started
@item linux kernel 2.6 (no 2.4 support)
@item the latest documentation is here:  @samp{http://frugalware.org/docs.php}
@end itemize

@section How to contribute

If you find our work and effort worth it, please consider donating.
 This is not limited to monetary contributions, every donation of a
 limited valuable resource (including your time, knowledge) is appreciated.
 Depending on your resources, there are many ways to help us.

@subsection Translation

A comprehensive and multi-language documentation is very important.
 With linguistic and no programming knowledge and some time, you can
 help us create (by asking) and maintain different translations.

@subsection Application packaging

In the Bug Tracking System @samp{http://bugs.frugalware.org}, there are 
feature requests for some packages. The process of making packages is 
well documented, and with some GNU/Linux experience, it isn't difficult. 
But it takes time, so submitting well-packaged software is a great way 
to help us and save our time.

@subsection Developing

Of course, any skilled help is appreciated in developing core systems, like
contributing code to pacman or the setup.

@subsection Donating hardware

By sending us some wanted hardware @samp{http://frugalware.org/donations.php}, 
you can make testing packages easier, or speed up the package creation 
process within a specific sub-architecture.

@subsection Monetary contributions

Of course, you can send money as well, this enables us to buy hardware,
 raw media to write Frugalware on, and the like.

FIXME Address the money can be sent to, methods etc 
