. $topsrcdir/browser/config/mozconfig

#ac_add_options --with-default-mozilla-five-home=/usr
ac_add_options --prefix=/usr

ac_add_options --enable-official-branding
ac_add_options --enable-release
ac_add_options --enable-strip
ac_add_options --enable-install-strip
ac_add_options --enable-chrome-format=omni
ac_add_options --enable-hardening
ac_add_options --enable-optimize
ac_add_options --enable-rust-simd
ac_add_options --enable-linker=lld
ac_add_options --disable-elf-hack

# System libraries
ac_add_options --with-system-nspr
ac_add_options --with-system-nss
ac_add_options --with-system-zlib
ac_add_options --with-system-libevent
ac_add_options --with-system-icu
ac_add_options --with-system-png
ac_add_options --with-system-jpeg
ac_add_options --enable-system-ffi
ac_add_options --enable-system-pixman
ac_add_options --enable-default-toolkit=cairo-gtk3

# Features
ac_add_options --enable-pulseaudio

ac_add_options --disable-crashreporter
ac_add_options --disable-updater
ac_add_options --disable-debug-symbols
ac_add_options --disable-tests
ac_add_options --disable-optimize
ac_add_options --disable-parental-controls
ac_add_options --enable-jemalloc
ac_add_options --disable-clang-plugin
ac_add_options --disable-profiling
ac_add_options --without-wasm-sandboxed-libraries
