@node Instalacja i konfiguracja, Modyfikacje, Pierwsze Kroki, Góra
@c node-name,     dalej,        wstecz,         góra

@chapter Instalacja i konfiguracja


@section Wybór typu instalacji


Frugalware można zainstalować na kilka sposobów.


@subsection Instalacja z płyt CD


Instalacja bazująca na 2 płytach CD. Jeżeli chcesz zastosować Frugalware jako serwer to potrzebujesz pierwszej płyty, jeżeli chcesz
środowiska graficzne - to musisz pobrać obie płyty


@subsection Instalacja z DVD


Płyta DVD zawiera również dodatkowe pakiety oraz pakiety językowe


@subsection Instalacja przez sieć


Mały obraz ISO (około 32MB) umożliwiający start z płyty, konfigurację sieci i pobranie potrzebnych pakietów z sieci 


@subsection Fwbootstrap (self-contained chroot) (tylko dla osób wiedzących co robią)


This is a tarball which has to be downloaded and unpacked. Mostly useful for 
developers who can compile packages in this build environment on a 
on-Frugalware host system. The archives can be found under 
@samp{http://ftp.frugalware.org/pub/other/chroot/} Usage example:

1) Download the tarball

@quotation
wget http://ftp.frugalware.org/pub/other/chroot/fwchroot-<date>-<arch>.tar.bz2
@end quotation
2) Unpack it

@quotation
tar xvjf fwchroot-<date>-<arch>.tar.bz2
@end quotation

3) Enter the chroot. The parameter is the root of the chroot.
@quotation
cd fwchroot-<date>-<arch> @*
./fwbootstrap ./
@end quotation

4) Use it (build a package or two)

5) Exit from the shell and fwbootstrap will unmount the necessary dirs for you.

You can get a list of installed packages in the chroot with issuing the
@samp{pacman -Q} command.

@subsection A complete bootstrap (tylko dla osób wiedzących co robią)

So you want a complete Frugalware installed into /mnt/foo. First of all, 
you must have a running Frugalware where you are able to do

@samp{pacman -Sy core base -r /mnt/foo}

which installs the core and base pkgs into it. But beware:

@verbatim
$ pacman -Qo /etc/sysconfig/keymap
No package owns /etc/sysconfig/keymap
$ pacman -Qo /etc/profile.d/lang.sh
No package owns /etc/profile.d/lang.sh
$ pacman -Qo /etc/fstab
No package owns /etc/fstab
@end verbatim

so you have to copy or forge them by hand. 

@section Pobranie obrazów płyt


Obrazy można pobrać z wielu serwerów poprzez HTTP, FTP czy rsync  lub też kupić na stronie CheapISO.com,
zobacz @uref{http://cheapiso.com/product_info.php?products_id=141}.

Oto przykładowe odnośniki:

FTP:
@quotation
wget @uref{ftp://ftp3.frugalware.org/mirrors/frugalware/frugalware/}
frugalware-version-iso/frugalware-version-arch-media.iso
@end quotation

HTTP:
@quotation
wget @uref{http://www5.frugalware.org/linux/frugalware/pub/frugalware/}
frugalware-version-iso/frugalware-version-arch-media.iso
@end quotation

rsync:
@quotation
rsync -avP rsync://ftp4.frugalware.org/ftp/pub/linux/distributions/
frugalware/frugalware-0.3-iso/frugalware-0.3-i686-dvd.iso ./
@end quotation

Pełna lista serwerów pod adresem: @uref{http://frugalware.org/download.php}.

@subsection Zainstalowałem system z płyt i chcę mieć dostęp do pakietów na nich zawartych po instalacji


Istnieją 2 metody by tego dokonać

Pierwsza najprostsza metoda to zamontowanie płyt i skopiowaniu pakietów FPM do /var/cache/pacman/pkg

Druga bardziej użyteczna polega na dodaniu do /etc/pacman.conf poniższego przed istniejącymi:

Include = /etc/pacman.d/cd

Teraz stwórz plik /etc/pacman.d/cd z zawartością:

Server = file:///media/dvd/frugalware-i686

Dla x86_64 użyj:

Server = file:///media/dvd/frugalware-x86_64

Płyty powinny być montowane pod /media/dvd (w innym przypadku zmień ścieżki w kodzie powyżej).



@section Instalacja

Po wypaleniu obrazów włóż płytę do napędu i uruchom ponownie komputer. Powita cię
GRUB, gdzie możesz rozpocząć uruchamianie się płyty instalacyjnej i ew. dokonać zmian ustawień systemu LiveCD

Na początku możesz wybrać język instalatora.

Następnie wybierasz mapę klawiatury, po czym instalator szuka mediów instalacyjnych.

Następnie tworzenie partycji - jeżeli jesteś początkującym użytkownikiem linuxa zalecam
stworzenie partycji znanym ci narzędziem (np. graficzne gparted czy qtparted pod linuxem) jako
że frugalware udostępnia dość "skomplikowane" narzędzia (cfdisk itp.) Potrzebujesz 1 partycji na system i 
1 partycję SWAP (możesz pominąć jeżeli masz dużo RAMu > 1GB)

Następne etapy to wybór partycji swap i partycji na system. Instalator spyta się czy je sformatować czy nie

Następnie będziesz mógł ustawić punkty montowania na inne partycje

Kolejny krok to wybór pakietów do instalacji, w zależności od preferencji możesz wybrać same kategorie pakietów 
do instalacji albo dodatkowo wybrać poszczególne pakiety.

Po zainstalowaniu bazowych pakietów będziesz mógł zainstalować program rozruchowy GRUB. Standardowo
instaluje się go w MBR. Grub umożliwi start Frugalware jak i innych systemów (po odpowiedniej edycji pliku konfiguracyjnego)

Następnie instalator rozpocznie instalację pozostałych pakietów

Jeżeli korzystasz z DVD będziesz mógł wybrać również pakiety językowe


@section Podstawowa konfiguracja


Po instalacji pakietów rozpocznie się etap konfiguracji. Na początku instalator zajmie się 
kernelem i zależnościami modułów.

Następnie będziesz mógł ustawić hasła roota jak i stworzyć konto zwykłego
użytkownika. Obie operacje są szczególnie zalecane ze względów bezpieczeństwa
i poprawnego działania systemu.

Kolejny etap to konfiguracja sieci (jeżeli posiadasz dostęp do internetu) za pomocą
netconfig.

Kolejny etap to ustawienia zegara, konfiguracja myszy i na końcu konfiguracja serwera
Xów.


@section Podstawy zarządzania pakietami


Frugalware korzysta z pacmana - programu zarządzającego pakietami autorstwa Judda Vineta.

Pobranie najnowszej listy dostępnych pakietów:
@quotation
pacman -Sy
@end quotation

Aktualizacja systemu:
@quotation
pacman -Su
@end quotation

Wyświetlenie listy odnośników do pakietów, które mają być pobrane:
@quotation
pacman -Sup
@end quotation

Po pobraniu pakietów kopiujemy je do /var/cache/pacman/pkg/. 
By zainstalować pakiet/y wraz z zależnościami wystarczy polecenie
@quotation
pacman -S nazwa_pakietu
@end quotation

Wyszukiwanie:
@quotation
pacman -Ss nazwa_pakietu 
@end quotation

Bezpośrednia instalacja pakietu fpm:
@quotation
pacman -U zsh-4.2.1-1.fpm
@end quotation

Usunięcie pakietu:
@quotation
pacman -R nazwa_pakietu
@end quotation

Lista zainstalowanych pakietów z podaną frazą w nazwie:
@quotation
pacman -Qs fraza
@end quotation


Pomoc:
@quotation
pacman -h
@end quotation



@section Sieć


FIXME after the current reworking of netconfig is done.


@subsection Obsługa karty sieciowej


W większości przypadków karta zostanie wykryta przy starcie systemu a odpowiednie moduły 
kernela zostaną załadowane. Połączenia konfiguruje się poprzez aplikację o nazwie netconfig


@subsection Narzędzie netconfig


Netconfig to prosta aplikacja działająca w trybie tekstowym umożliwiająca 
konfigurację połączeń internetowych. netconfig przeprowadzi cię przez kilka etapów 
w których będzie oczekiwał określonych danych. W przypadku zwykłych połączeń przez kartę sieciową 
będziemy mogli wybrać "automatyczne" połączenie z pomocą DHCP lub podać IP, DNSy, bramkę i 
maskę podsieci.


@subsection Połączenia DSL


Netconfig umożliwia również konfigurację połączeń DSL/ADSL.

Na początku będziesz musiał podać swój login, zazwyczaj w postaci - login@dostawca. 
Następnie program poprosi cię o wybranie interfejsu dla połączenia po czym poprosi cię 
o wpisanie hasła potrzebnego do połączenia.

Polecenie su -c 'service adsl start' uruchomi połączenie a su -c 'service adsl stop' zatrzyma. By 
automatycznie łączyć się przy starcie systemu wystarczy: su -c 'service adsl add'.


@subsection Podstawowa konfiguracja firewalla


Frugalware comes with a firewall configuration working 'out of the box'. 
This allows all outgoing connections, and incoming packets for established 
connections. It does not allow normal incoming packages for any ports. 
The firewall configuration is at @samp{/etc/sysconfig/firewall}.

Let's see an example: you would like to allow others to ssh into your 
computer. Edit /etc/sysconfig/firewall, remove the hashmark (#) from 
the beginning of the line under the # ssh description, and restart 
the firewall:

@samp{su -c 'service firewall restart'}

The same applies for Apache or any other services.

If you would like to have any advanced firewall settings, configure 
your firewall as root with iptables then save your config as root 
with iptables-save >/etc/sysconfig/firewall.

Warning! It will overwrite your existing configuration! It is strongly 
recommended to make a backup of /etc/sysconfig/firewall before saving 
your settings.


@section Tryb Graficzny (X11)


@subsection Konfiguracja karty grafiki


W przypadku instalacji serwera Xów uruchomiony zostanie xconfig, 
którego zadaniem będzie stworzenie pliku konfiguracyjnego. Oprócz podstawowych ustawień 
xconfig doda kilka innych ustawień:

@itemize
@item Konfiguracja rolki myszy
@item Ustawienie profilu klawiatury wg. wybranego języka
@item Włączenie DPMS
@item Umożliwi użytkownikom korzystanie z rozszerzenia DRI 
@end itemize

Po wygenerowaniu pliku konfiguracyjnego zostanie uruchomiony serwer Xów. Będziesz 
musiał potwierdzić że wszystko działa jak należy.


@subsection akceleracja 3D, binarne sterowniki


Jeżeli istnieje w Xach wsparcie dla akceleracji 3D dla twojej karty xconfig
skonfiguruje akcelerację i załaduje odpowiednie moduły.

Jeżeli posiadasz kartę ATI lub nVidii zapewne będziesz chciał użyć sterowników producentów:

@quotation
su -c 'pacman -Sy nvidia'
@end quotation

W przypadku ATI instalacja jest bardziej złożona

@quotation
su -c 'pacman -Sy fglrx'
@end quotation

Uwaga: Musisz wykonać pacman -S nvidia/fglrx po każdej aktualizacji kernela lub x.org!


@subsubsection Aktualizacja x.org lub kernela zabiła tryb graficzny, co zrobić?


Przeinstalować odpowiednio pakiet nvidia lub fglrx.


@subsection Logowanie roota w KDM/GDM


By default, no root login is permitted on the GUI, the recommended way of 
running graphical programs as root is to use gksu or kdesu.

To enable it anyway, the following lines should be edited:

For KDM (/usr/share/config/kdm/kdmrc)

@quotation
AllowRootLogin=false 
@end quotation

modify to

@quotation
AllowRootLogin=true 
@end quotation

For GDM (/etc/gdm/gdm.conf)

@quotation
AllowRoot=false 
@end quotation

modify to 

@quotation
AllowRoot=true
@end quotation

@section Sound

@subsection Konfiguracja karty dźwiękowej

Frugalware korzysta z ALSY do obsługi dźwięku. Konfiguracja karty dźwiękowej jest automatyczna 
i przy starcie systemu hotplug wykryje kartę i załaduje potrzebne moduły kernela. 


@subsection Ustawienie głośności za pomocą alsamixer


By default, your sound card is muted. You can use alsamixer to unmute your 
card. Use the < and > keys to unmute a channel, up and down keys to set the 
volume and left or right keys to switch to another channel. You can quit
alsamixer by hitting the Esc key.

If you want Frugalware to store your settings automatically on shutdown and
restore on boot, then the first time you should store your settings manually:

@quotation
su -c 'alsactl store'
@end quotation


From now, during shutdown, Frugalware saves your settings, but you can store
or load them any time with the

@quotation
su -c 'service alsa save'
@end quotation

and the

@quotation
su -c 'service alsa load'
@end quotation

command.


@section Drukowanie


Frugalware uses the Common Unix Printing System (CUPS) for handling 
printers and to manage printing.

@subsection Konfiguracja drukowania

1.) Open your favorite Internet browser and go to @uref{http://localhost:631/}. 
This is the Web interface of CUPS.

2.) Select Administration from the black top menu. If a username is required, 
type root, and give your root password.

3.) You can do almost everything here in connection with printing. 
In our example, we will add a new local printer.

4.) Click Add Printer, type in a name and optionally fill the 
Location and Description lines.

5.) Select Device, in most cases it is Parallel Port #1 for older models 
and one of the usb ports for newer ones.

6.) On the next page, select your vendor and your 
printer type (the driver/filter).


To set up a remote Windows share with password, give a string 
like this for location (the share name is the 
printer's assigned name on the remote system):
@samp{smb://user:passwd@@Netbios_Name_or_ip_address/Share_name}

Notice that, when you view the printer configuration, the 
credentials will not be shown but will be used.


@subsection Nie ma mojej drukarki


If your vendor or printer type isn't listed in the wizard, you have to 
check @uref{http://linuxprinting.org/} wether if is supported 
under linux or not. If it's not on @uref{http://linuxprinting.org/} then try 
to google after. If listed but said to be "paperweight", then there 
is nothing to do. If it is supported and said to be working on the 
site, then please file a bug report with your printer details. 
While we fix the bug, you can install 
the driver (the ppd) by yourself.

On the left side, select Printer Listings. Then select your device's 
vendor and proper type. On the results page, select download PPD. 
After download, there will be a file named someting_that_ends_with.ppd.

Save the PPD file in the directory /usr/share/cups/model/. The PPD file 
doesn't have to be executable, but it should be world-readable and 
should have the file extension ".ppd".

Then restart the CUPS service: @samp{su -c 'service cups restart'}. The driver 
installation is now completed, now you can add your printer via the web 
interface. A good howto can be found at 
@uref{http://linuxprinting.org/cups-doc.html}.


@subsection Multiple pages on a single sheet


This is also known as n-up printing. If an application doesn't support it 
natively, print the document to a file as PostScript and use psnup:
@quotation
psnup -2 print.ps > print2page.ps 
@end quotation
The first option specifies the number of pages stacked on one physical sheet, 
the second is the filename of the original one-sided document, and the last 
is the n-up (two-sided) document. You can then print it with
@quotation
cupsdoprint -P nameofprinter foo.ps
@end quotation
or open it in your favourite PS viewer.

@subsection Problemy

If something goes wrong, check out CUPS log at /var/log/cups. There is a 
verbose error log and an access log, too. Also, on linuxprinting.org there 
is a section for all supported (or known to be unsupported) printers.

@section System hotplug

@subsection udev

The /dev directory under Frugalware is a ramdisk. Every device node is 
created automatically during the system boot by the hotplug subsystem, 
more specifically, by udev. It means, there won't be unnecessary device 
nodes in /dev, but it also means, if you create a device node manually, 
it will exist only until the next shutdown/reboot.

If you want to force Frugalware to create a device node "manually" 
during each boot, you must edit the /etc/sysconfig/udev configuration file.

The udev needs sysfs, so it will only work with the 2.6.x kernel series. 
Do not try to run udev on Frugalware with kernel series 2.4.x.


@subsection Pendrives i inne urządzenia USB


Pendrives (also known as thumbdrives) are well-supported through the hotplug 
scripts and udev. If you insert a pendrive into the USB slot, udev will 
create a device node for it in /dev. Most pendrives contain only one 
partition and their filesystem is vfat. In most cases, the pendrive will 
behave like a SCSI disc. It means, you can find the pendrive 
under /dev/sda and its first partition under /dev/sda1. 
Adding the following line to /etc/fstab:
@quotation
/dev/sda1 /media/pendrive auto defaults,noauto,user 0 0
@end quotation
will allow users mount their pendrive if the device node 
exists (if the device is inserted into the slot).


@subsection Aparaty Cyfrowe


Tyipcally, there are two types of digital cameras. Some of them support 
both access methods, others use only one of them. First, most of the 
cameras can be treated as a pendrive (USB Mass Storage device), you can 
mount them and copy the pictures from them easily.

Other cameras support the Picture Transfer Protocol (PTP). You can 
grab the pictures from them (and do lots of other actions) with gphoto2, 
if your model is supported. (If it's not available on your system, a 
simple su -c 'pacman -S gphoto2' will install it onto your system.)

@subsection Automontowanie: D-BUS, HAL i Ivman

D-BUS is a simple IPC (inter-process communication) library based on messages. 
HAL is a hardware abstraction layer which uses D-BUS. Ivman is based on HAL 
and uses pmount ("policy mount"), which is a wrapper around the standard 
mount program which permits normal users to mount removable devices 
without an existing /etc/fstab entry.

Ivman is a daemon to automount CD-ROMs and DVDs when inserted in a drive, 
or play audio CDs or video DVDs automatically. It is 100% userspace, 
so it is a safe replacement for submount.

If you want to change the default settings, all config files are 
located in /etc/ivman. They are plain XML files, just read them, 
everything is quite self-explanatory.

@section Skrypty rozruchowe, start systemu


@subsection O kernelu


The Linux kernel is in the kernel package. We're trying to use as few patches 
as possible to stay close to the vanilla kernel. The only exception is the 
bootsplash patch, which allows an optional nice splash screen during boot. 
The kernel contains compiled-in support for most IDE controllers, but all 
low-level SCSI drivers are compiled as a module. If Frugalware's kernel 
doesn't contain built-in support for your controller, you can compile your 
own kernel. Don't worry, it's fairly simple.

1) After setup is finished, choose the option that you want to do 
something special.

2) Change your root directory to /mnt/target:
@quotation
chroot /mnt/target
@end quotation
3) The source of your kernel (with additional patches applied) can be found 
at /usr/src/linux. So go to the /usr/src/linux directory and enter the 
configuration menu by typing make menuconfig. Inside it, select the driver 
you don't want to compile as a module anymore, and exit from the menu with 
saving changes.

4) Compile your kernel with the make command. This may take several minutes.

5) Copy your new kernel to /boot by typing the 
@samp{cp /usr/src/linux/arch/yourarch/boot/bzImage /boot/vmlinuz} command. 
On x86, yourarch is i386.

@subsection Skrypty rozruchowe

In Frugalware, init scripts are always called rc.something and 
they are located in /etc/rc.d. You can manage these scripts 
with the service command:
@itemize
@item @samp{service adsl stop} - it will stop your ADSL connection
@item @samp{service httpd start} - it will start your webserver
@item @samp{service clamd add} - the clamd service will be started during every boot
@item @samp{service sshd del} - the sshd service will not be started 
automatically anymore
@item @samp{service acpid list} - gives you a short list of the runlevels where the 
specified service is started automatically
@end itemize

@subsection start systemu, runlevels


If you don't pass any extra @samp{init=/path/to/init} parameters to it, the kernel 
will start /sbin/init as the final step of the kernel boot sequence. 
According to the content of /etc/inittab, init will run:

1) each S* script at /etc/rc.d/rcS.d

2) each S* script at /etc/rc.d/rcn.d, where n is the default runlevel. 
This is set to 4 by default. Here is the list of available runlevels:
@quotation
0 = halt	@*
1 = single user mode	@*
2 = unused (but configured the same as runlevel 3)	@*
3 = multiuser mode (text mode)	@*
4 = multiuser mode, X11 with KDM/GDM/XDM (default Frugalware runlevel)	@*
5 = unused (but configured the same as runlevel 3)	@*
6 = reboot	@*
@end quotation

If X11 is configured, /etc/rc.d/rc.4 will start one of the desktop managers, 
as configured in /etc/sysconfig/desktop.

@subsection GRUB gfxmenu

Frugalware comes with a nice graphical grub menu 
(thanks to SuSE's gfxmenu developers). If you don't like it, you can disable 
it by commenting out the gfxmenu initialization line in /boot/grub/menu.lst. 
So for example:

Before: @samp{gfxmenu (hd0,5)/boot/grub/message}	@*
After: @samp{# gfxmenu (hd0,5)/boot/grub/message}

@subsection Bootsplash

Frugalware's kernel contains the bootsplash patch. This allows users to see a 
nice splash screen and a progress bar instead of text messages during the 
boot procedure. If you prefer verbose mode but don't want to press the F2 key 
each time you boot, or you would like to completely disable bootsplash, you'll 
need to add an extra parameter in /boot/grub/menu.lst to your kernel.

@itemize
@item splash=silent 	Silent mode, only a progressbar 
(default with GRUB gfxmenu)
@item splash=verbose 	Verbose mode, but with a nice background 
(default without gfxmenu)
@item splash=none 	completely disables bootsplash
@end itemize

Warning: You can't use framebuffer with 24 bit colour depth 
and bootsplash together.

Here is a summary of @samp{vga=} parameters which you can
 and which you cannot use:

@c have to use a multi-table, 2 columned (simple) tables are not enough

@multitable @columnfractions .5 .2 .2
@headitem depth / resolution @tab 800x600 @tab 1024x768
@item 16 bit (good)   @tab  788  @tab  791
@item 24 bit (wrong)  @tab  789  @tab  792
@end multitable

@subsection Baterie

Notebook users are usually interested in the state of their battery. Usually
the following steps are required to enable this functionality:

Add the following two lines to your @samp{/etc/sysconfig/modules}:

@verbatim
battery
ac
@end verbatim

The next task is to enable the acpid service:

@samp{service acpid add}

Then the easiest way is to reboot, or if you don't want do do so:

@verbatim
modprobe battery
modprobe ac
service hald stop
service dbus stop
service acpid start
service dbus start
service hald start
@end verbatim

The only remaining task is to start a client: if you're on console, try the
@samp{acpi} command, or the relevant applet of your favorite window manager.

@subsection Hibernacja


Hibernating your computer can cause data loss or severe filesystem damage 
if things go wrong. It's highly advised that first, you should consider if 
hibernating is worth the effort at all. Try it on a fresh installation first, 
instead of a production system.

From kernel/suspend.c:

@verbatim
* BIG FAT WARNING *********************************************************
*
* If you have unsupported (*) devices using DMA...
*                              ...say goodbye to your data.
*
* If you touch anything on disk between suspend and resume...
*                              ...kiss your data goodbye.
*
* If your disk driver does not support suspend... (IDE does)
*                              ...you'd better find out how to get along
*                                 without your data.
*
* If you change kernel command line between suspend and resume...
*                              ...prepare for nasty fsck or worse.
*
* If you change your hardware while system is suspended...
*                              ...well, it was not good idea.
*
* (*) suspend/resume support is needed to make it safe.
@end verbatim


You have been warned. If you are still not discouraged, read on!


First, you need to create a swap partition (if you don't have any yet). 
You have to add an extra resume=/dev/swappart kernel parameter to 
/boot/grub/menu.lst. For example, on my machine the old line was:

@samp{kernel (hd0,2)/boot/vmlinuz ro root=/dev/hda3 quiet vga=788}

The new line:

@samp{kernel (hd0,2)/boot/vmlinuz ro root=/dev/hda3 quiet vga=788 resume=/dev/hda2}

After the above are done, you must reboot. The hibernation can be started with:

@samp{echo shutdown > /sys/power/disk; echo disk > /sys/power/state}

and next time you boot your kernel it should resume. For more info, look at 
/usr/src/linux/Documentation/power/swsusp.txt.  It requires the kernel documentation,
which can be installed issuing the @samp{pacman -S kernel-docs}
command as root.


@section Apt - pacman cross reference


For those who are familiar with the apt package management tool, 
here is a quick cross-reference.

@c well, multi-tables, again :)

@multitable @columnfractions .4 .3 .3
@headitem Action
 	@tab Apt command 
 	@tab pacman command
@item Refresh the package database: 
	@tab  apt-get update  
	@tab  pacman -Sy
@item Update currently installed packages to 
 the newest available version:  
	@tab apt-get upgrade 
	@tab pacman -Su
@item Install a new package:  
	@tab apt-get install foo
	@tab pacman -S foo
@item Remove a package:  
	@tab  apt-get remove foo 
	@tab pacman -Rc foo
@item Search in the full package database:  
	@tab  apt-cache search foo 
	@tab pacman -Ss foo
@item Install a package from a file:  
	@tab  dpkg -i foo.deb 
	@tab pacman -A foo.tgz
@item Clean the package cache: 
	@tab  apt-get clean 
	@tab pacman -Sc
@end multitable

@include frugalware-apps.texi
